# Annotated Bibliography

>For this annotated bibliography, it makes the most sense to look at
sources from several topics, such as security, application design, and
subject matter expertise, since those are 3 very distinct yet equally
important aspects to this practicum project.

**10 Tips for Creating a Cookbook \| Blurb Blog. (2017, October 31).
Retrieved May 21, 2019, from
https://www.blurb.com/blog/10-tips-creating-cookbook/** To make sure
your cookbook turns out as well as your food, here are 10 tips for
getting that pro-look and saving time and hassle once you leave the
kitchen. While this blog is intended for hard-cover cookbooks, there are
tips in here that can apply to a digital cookbook as well. This will be
invaluable while designing the UI of the application.

**Allrecipes \|
Food, friends, and recipe inspiration. (n.d.). Retrieved May 22, 2019,
from Allrecipes website: https://www.allrecipes.com/** Find and share
everyday cooking inspiration on Allrecipes. Discover recipes, cooks,
videos, and how-tos based on the food you love and the friends you
follow.This is another site for inspiration for my own app. This website
is missing the cookbook feature, and overall their landing page feels a
little cluttered, but at the same time they present a lot of information
to the user.

**BakeSpace - Food community, recipes, cookbooks & cooking
contests. (n.d.). Retrieved May 21, 2019, from
http://www.bakespace.com/** This website is similar to what I am trying
to create, however, this is less of a public recipe browsing space and
more of a cookbook-only application. They have some interesting design
choices that provide some interesting ideas about laying out a digital
recipe website. I like their tile view, although it does get a little
busy at times.

**Food and Recipe API. (n.d.). Retrieved May 21, 2019,
from spoonacular website: https://spoonacular.com/food-api** The Food
and Recipe API allows you to tap into a great resource of recipes,
ingredients, grocery products, and restaurant menu items to build
awesome food apps. In order for my application to be successful, it has
to have a powerful backing data source. This api should provide instant
access to a lot of recipes to make this platform instantly useful. It is
worth noting that this API has an education tier that costs \$10 a
month.

**Food is heating up on Pinterest. (n.d.). Retrieved May 22, 2019,
from Pinterest Business website:
https://business.pinterest.com/en/blog/food-is-heating-up-on-pinterest**
Although Pinterest is not exclusively in the recipe / cookbook domain,
they are in fact a general go-to application for users everywhere for
their cooking needs. This article discusses some of the trends happening
in the Pinterest world, along with tangential features that Pinterest
offers that users are taking advantage of. This article will be useful
in determining critical extra features for my application.

**How Secure
is Social Login? (2018, July 5). Retrieved May 22, 2019, from Okta
website:
https://www.okta.com/security-blog/2018/07/how-secure-is-social-login/**
How Secure is Social Login? Okta weighs in, to answer all of your social
sign in questions. This is an important article, because choosing social
login as the primary (if not sole) form of authentication is a big
design decision. This blog provides evidence as to why this is an
acceptable if not standard choice.

**Mortensen, D. (n.d.). How to Create
an Intuitive Design. Retrieved May 22, 2019, from The Interaction Design
Foundation website:
https://www.interaction-design.org/literature/article/how-to-create-an-intuitive-design**
This blog discusses the components that go into a intuitive user
interface. Some takeaways are to try to use similar symbols from around
the industry for similar functions, as users become accustomed to these
things and it will increase their understanding of the application.

**My
CookBook Online. (n.d.). Retrieved May 21, 2019, from
https://www.mycookbook-online.net/en/home/** This site is a classic
example of how this application idea is attempted to be fully monetized.
Their free platform is a joke in that you are limited to 30 recipes, 1
import per day, and they serve ads. This landing page gives great ideas
for the welcome page of my application.

**Okta. (2019, May 21). OpenID
Connect & OAuth 2.0 API \| Okta Developer \[Software Engineering
Guide\]. Retrieved May 21, 2019, from Okta Developer Guide website:
https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/resources/oidc/\#request-parameters**
Okta is a OpenID Connect and OAuth 2.0 provider along with middleman.
They provide a platform that does much of the heavy lifting as far as
integrating with other auth providers, along with allowing users to
register or log in themselves to the platform. This article is a
practical explanation to their product, along with an overview as to how
you can expect it to work.

**Schroers, J. (2019). I have a Facebook
account, therefore I am -- authentication with social networks.
*International Review of Law, Computers & Technology*, *33*(2),
211--223. https://doi.org/10.1080/13600869.2018.1475895** Social login
is the use of a social network account to get access to other services.
Since the internet in its architecture does not have the possibility to
identify the internet user, for many services, social logins are the
solution to authenticate users without the need to set up individual
identity management systems. Social logins are not useful for all types
of services, however, and the potential lock-in and lock-out of users
needs to be considered.

**The absolute best way to organize your recipes
from ALL sources in one place - Foodess.com. (n.d.). Retrieved May 22,
2019, from Foodess website:
https://foodess.com/article/absolute-best-way-organize-recipes-sources-one-place/**
The final word on how to organize your recipes from websites, cookbooks,
print magazines, tablet magazines, emails, your mom\'s index cards, even
apps - all in one super-convenient cloud-based spot. The importance of
this blog is that it discusses several key use cases in recipe
organization, which provide features people desire in their digital
cookbook assistants.

**TheMealDB.com. (n.d.). Retrieved May 21, 2019,
from https://www.themealdb.com/api.php** This is another Recipe API. It
will be good to be able to compare and contrast features of two Recipe
API\'s in order to pick the one that will work the best for this
project. On the one hand, this API is free, but it\'s support and
features are limited in comparison.

**WebFX, W. C. P. of, & Inc. (2011,
May 30). 10 Important UI Design Considerations for Web Apps. Retrieved
May 22, 2019, from WebFX Blog website:
https://www.webfx.com/blog/web-design/10-important-ui-design-considerations-for-web-apps/**
Written through the eyes of a web app developer, this article shares 10
lessons learned while designing a web application interface. This blog
emphasises the importance of the first impression, and reiterates just
how important it is to capture the audience at first glance.

**When and
How You Should Denormalize a Relational Database. (n.d.). Retrieved May
22, 2019, from
https://rubygarage.org/blog/database-denormalization-with-examples**
Building a high-performance application is impossible without a properly
structured and optimized database. Developers do their best to normalize
relational databases, but sometimes they need to resort to an opposite
process -- denormalization. We've written this article to shed light on
when and how you should denormalize a database and the drawbacks of this
technique.This article is important because I am proposing a
denormalized data structure for recipe and cookbook
storage.

**Wintermute, H. E. (2017). The Joy of Cataloging Community
Cookbooks. *Cataloging & Classification Quarterly*, *55*(4), 197--228.
https://doi.org/10.1080/01639374.2017.1291461** Countless fundraiser or
community cookbooks produced over the years provide ample research
potential for history and social scholars. The production quality and
the ephemeral nature of these cookbooks pose descriptive challenges when
adding them to library catalogs. While Resource Description and Access
brings more flexibility to the descriptive process, the current
dependence on MARC records still imposes some restrictions on encoding
the descriptive elements. Libraries are starting to transition towards a
linked data environment using the Bibliographic Framework (under
development by the Library of Congress), which will result in a richer
and more flexible environment for bibliographic control.Ultimately, this
article helps to quantify the common good that can be brought forth by
creating such an application. Creating a space for people to freely
share their heritage is important for society.
